docs: public dashboards updates (#67173)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/dashboards/dashboard-public/index.md

# Public dashboards

{{% admonition type="Note" %}}

This feature is in [public preview](/docs/release-life-cycle/).

{{% /admonition %}}

{{% admonition type="Caution" %}}

Making your dashboard public could result in a large number of queries to the data sources used by your dashboard.
This can be mitigated by utilizing the enterprise [caching]({{< relref "../../administration/data-source-management/#query-caching" >}}) and/or rate limiting features.

{{% /admonition %}}

> Public dashboards allow you to share your Grafana dashboard with anyone. This is useful when you want to make your dashboard available to the world without requiring access to your Grafana organization. This differs from [dashboard sharing]({{< relref "../share-dashboards-panels" >}}), which either requires recipients to be part of the same Grafana organization or provides limited information, as with a snapshot.

Reviewer: I'm not sure about the word `recipients` here because it sounds like anyone could be the recipient of a dashboard but they must be Grafana users. Please disregard my message if we are using this word in other parts of the docs.

Author: Hmm, that's a good point. I do mean recipient, because a recipient could be a Grafana user or not. But if that's making this confusing, then maybe it's not the best way to put this. What about this:

```suggestion
Public dashboards allow you to share your Grafana dashboard with anyone. This is useful when you want to make your dashboard available to the world without requiring access to your Grafana organization. This differs from [dashboard sharing]({{< relref "../share-dashboards-panels" >}}), which either requires recipients to be users in the same Grafana organization or provides limited information, as with a snapshot.
```

Reviewer: Great!

--env GF_FEATURE_TOGGLES_ENABLE=publicDashboards
```

{{% admonition type="Note" %}}

> For Grafana Cloud, contact support to have the feature enabled.

Reviewer: The enablement of feature toggles by support is only available for paid customers (starting with Grafana Pro). Maybe we want to add this limitation?

> For Grafana Cloud, contact support to have the feature enabled.

Author: ```suggestion
For Grafana Cloud (Pro and Advanced), contact support to have the feature enabled.
```

## Pause access

1. Click the sharing icon in the dashboard header.
1. Click the **Public dashboard** tab.
1. Enable the **Pause sharing dashboard** toggle.

The dashboard is no longer accessible, even with the link, until you make it shareable again.

## Revoke access

1. Click the sharing icon in the dashboard header.
1. Click the **Public dashboard** tab.
1. Click **Revoke public URL** to delete the public dashboard.

The link no longer works. You must create a new public URL, as in [Make a dashboard public](#make-a-dashboard-public).

## Email sharing

{{% admonition type="Note" %}}

Available in [Grafana Enterprise]({{< relref "../../introduction/grafana-enterprise/" >}}) and [Grafana Cloud Pro and Advanced](/docs/grafana-cloud).

{{% /admonition %}}

Email sharing allows you to share your public dashboard with only specific people by email, instead of having it accessible to anyone with the URL. When you use email sharing, recipients receive a one-time use link that's valid for **one hour**. Once the link is used, the viewer has access to the public dashboard for **30 days**.

### Enable email sharing

{{% admonition type="Note" %}}

> For Grafana Cloud, contact support to have the feature enabled.

Reviewer: Same as before with the difference that this feature is also only supported by Pro and Advance as stated above.

> For Grafana Cloud, contact support to have the feature enabled.

Author: ```suggestion
For Grafana Cloud (Pro and Advanced), contact support to have the feature enabled.
```

### Revoke access for a viewer

1. Click the sharing icon in the dashboard header.
1. Click the **Public dashboard** tab.
1. Click **Revoke** on the viewer you'd like to revoke access for.

Immediately, the viewer no longer has access to the public dashboard, nor can they use any existing one-time use links they may have.

### Reinvite a viewer

1. Click the sharing icon in the dashboard header.
1. Click the **Public dashboard** tab.
1. Click **Resend** on the viewer you'd like to re-share the public dashboard with.

The viewer will receive an email with a new one-time use link. This will invalidate all previously issued links for that viewer.

### Access limitations

One-time use links use browser cookies, so when a viewer is granted access through one of these links, they will only have access on the browser they used to claim the link.

A single viewer cannot generate multiple valid one-time use links. When a new one-time use link is issued for a viewer, all previous ones are invalidated.

If a Grafana user has read access to the parent dashboard, they can view the public dashboard without needing to have access granted.

> ## Assess public dashboard usage

Reviewer: Public dashboard insights are only available in the same versions as Dashboard insights (Enterprise, Cloud Pro and Cloud Advanced).

> ## Assess public dashboard usage

Author: ```suggestion
## Assess public dashboard usage

> **Note:** Available in [Grafana Enterprise]({{< relref "../../introduction/grafana-enterprise/" >}}) and [Grafana Cloud Pro and Advanced](/docs/grafana-cloud).
```
